---
layout: about
title: Home
permalink: /
# subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Motto. Etc.

selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: false # includes social icons at the bottom of the page

announcements:
  enabled: true # includes a list of news items
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 news items
  limit: 5 # leave blank to include all the news in the `_news` folder

latest_posts:
  enabled: false 
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 new posts items
  limit: 3 # leave blank to include all the blog posts

organizers: true

profile:
  align: right 
  image: desegma_banner.png
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info:
---

Desegma-IT - <b>Detection and Segmentation of Machine Generated Text in Italian</b> - is a Shared Task of the 9th evaluation campaign organized by the [EVALITA](https://www.evalita.it/) initiative. 

Recent advancements in Generative AI and Large Language Models (LLMs) have led to the development of systems, such as GPT-series, Claude, Llama and DeepSeek among others, that can generate text that is often indistinguishable from human-written content. This capability, along with the many beneficial applications of LLMs, also enables malicious actors to generate synthetic content for deceptive purposes. For example, it can be used to manipulate online traffic and spread misinformation through content farms or to influence human revisions of sensitive documents in critical domains, such as scientific peer review.

>
Beyond public opinion concerns, the European Commission will enforce compliance with the AI Act. In particular, <a href="https://artificialintelligenceact.eu/article/50/">article 50 points 2 and 4</a> require that text generated by <b>General Purpose AI</b> (GPAI) have to be marked and automatically recognizable, making the need for machine generated text detectors, not only desirable but required by law. Therefore, to comply with the AI Act and mitigate concerns about the undisclosed use of machine-generated text (MGT), <b>the development of reliable detection methods is essential for a responsible deployment of generative AI</b>.

Desegma-IT's shared tasks of <b>Detection</b> and <b>Segmentation</b> aim to stress-test the robustness of machine-generated text detectors by evaluating their performance under settings where the I.I.D. (independent and identically distributed) assumption does not hold. While state-of-the-art MGT detectors have reported high accuracy, such results often stem from unrealistic experimental settings: for example, relying on prior knowledge of the text generator, or failing to consider domain shifts and efficient fine-tuning - or post-tuning - strategies.

Register your team at this [google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdAgOMmO-GK1K-w5Mn-eZQRJNTn9BQj8mQUj5_V3iZdS2vRkA/viewform?usp=dialog). We will only consider teams that registered so don't forget to do it!!

Find the dataset for SubTask A at [this link !!!!!](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1d3qIT4acxohlRC-kwIpRPcd1q-wR3uYd/view?usp=drive_link).

> **NOTE**: Check the Tasks page (Top right) for more details about the tasks and the dataset. Keep in mind that you should only use the training dataset we make available to train your detectors!

## Important Dates
+ <b>Data Release</b>: September 22nd, 2025
+ <b>Evaluation Window</b>: dates will be announced by October 13th, 2025
+ <b>Camera Ready Deadline</b>: February 2nd, 2026
+ <b>Workshop Date</b>: February 26th-27th, 2026, Bari (Italy)